ROOFING
97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating
*Read Safety Data Sheet before using this product.*
DESCRIPTION: 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating is made of selected asphalts and pigment flakes of
pure aluminum blended with refined solvents and reinforcing fibers for heavy duty service. When 97
Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating is applied to the roof, the aluminum flakes leaf to the surface providing a
reflective metallic shield over the base of the coating.
A. The asphaltic oils in the roof are protected from harmful intense rays of the sun by the reflective
properties of the aluminum. Over 50% of the sun’s rays are reflected by this aluminum shield,
thereby preventing these oils from being “cooked” out of the roof substrate. The coating, therefore,
retains its resilient characteristics and will not prematurely crack or dry out.
B. During the hot summer months, 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating will help reduce indoor
building temperatures and improve inside living and working conditions. Be reflecting the sun’s rays
and reducing roof surface temperatures.
One coat of 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating will extend the life of modified bitumen membrane, not
only by limiting fire-spread, (as indicated by the U.L. Class “A” Rating) but its high aluminum content and
excellent reflectivity afford solar protection and weather durability. 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating is
U.L. Class A rated over specified Modified Bitumen Systems, UL Listing #Rl2l99 (N).
USES: 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating helps reduce indoor building temperatures. It’s ideal for use on
modified bitumen membranes, metal corrugated roof decks, steep asphalt roofs that have aged for 90
days, or any KARNAK emulsion roof coating that has been allowed to cure for 3-5 days.
SURFACE PREPARATIONS: Prepare all surfaces by sweeping clean of dust, dirt, loose rust, oil and
loose particles. Recommended application temperature is 50°F to 120°F. Repair all cracks and blisters by
spreading KARNAK 19 Ultra Rubberized Flashing Cement over the damaged area, then embed KARNAK
Asphalt Cotton, Fiberglass, Poly-Mat or Resat-Mat reinforcement and apply another coat of KARNAK 19
Ultra Rubberized Flashing Cement over the entire patch. New asphalt roof surfaces should weather a
minimum of 90 days before being coated over with 97 fibered Aluminum Roof Coating. However, 97
Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating can be coated on roofs 3 to 5 days after KARNAK asphalt emulsion roof
coatings have been applied. Badly weathered or alligatored asphalt surfaces should be primed with
KARNAK 100 Non-Fibered Emulsion Primer or 220 Fibered Emulsion Roof Coating prior to coating with
97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating. Allow emulsion primer/coating to cure a minimum of 3-5 days before
application of aluminum roof coating.
APPLICATION: 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating should be spread uniformly over the roof surface.
Care should be taken not to overwork the coating during application. This could have a damaging effect
on the leafing of the aluminum. Pour the correct amount of aluminum roof coating to cover a given area
and work it in one direction. Be sure to mechanically mix the aluminum roof coating thoroughly before
using. 97 Fibered Aluminum Roof Coating can be applied with a soft roof brush, roller or spray.
Discoloration will occur in areas where 19 Ultra Rubberized Flashing Cement is not allowed to dry a
minimum of 60 days. After 60 days, recommended application temperatures are 50˚F and rising.

PHYSICAL PROPERTIES &
SPECIFICATIONS
Weight per Gallon: 8.0 lbs.
Solids by Weight:

58% Nominal

Solids by Volume: 49% Nominal
Color:

Silver

Application Temp.: 50°F to 120°F
Service Temp
(Cured Film):

15°F to 180°F

VOC Content:

450 g/L MAX

ASTM D2824 Type III
TT-C-498C
ASTM D3805
ASTM D962 Type II
Solar Reflectance: 0.63 Initial
0.55 3-Yr. Aged
Thermal Emittance: 0.46 Initial
0.53 3-Yr. Aged
SRI:

62 Initial
52 3-Yr. Aged

COVERAGE RATE: Apply at 1 to 1.5 gallons per 100 sq. ft. (16-24 wet mils). DO NOT THIN.
CAUTION: Do not use near open flame. Avoid breathing solvent fumes and prolonged contact with skin.
Do not take internally. If swallowed, do not induce vomiting. Call a physician immediately. Keep out of
reach of children. Store in a heated room and keep container covered when not in use. Do not thin.
Dispose of in an environmentally safe manner. Cover air intakes during application and while drying.
Exterior use only.
KARNAK recommends coating torch-applied modified bitumen membranes as soon as possible after the
membrane is installed. KARNAK’s experience, laboratory and field tests, as well as NRCA, RCMA and
ARMA reports, indicate that aluminum roof coating will reduce the combined effects of ultraviolet rays,
heat and moisture, which, especially on APP modified bitumen, enhance exudation that can cause
discoloring and delamination of any surface coating. After 60 days, recommended application
temperatures are 50˚F and rising. Coating must not come in contact with any type of moisture within 2448 hours after application.
Cold-process systems and coatings, either emulsion or solvent-based, should only be installed on decks
with positive drainage. Per NRCA (National Roofing Contractors Association), “The criteria for judging
proper slope for drainage is that there be no evidence of standing water on a deck 48 hours after it stops
raining.”
PACKAGING: Available in 5-gallon pails, 1-gallon cans and 55-gallon drums.
If further information is needed, contact KARNAK Technical services at 800-526-4236.

330 Central Ave. I Clark, NJ 07066 I 800.526.4236 I Fax 732.388.9422 | www.karnakcorp.com
Updated: 06.29.20

